---
layout: article
title: Introduction to "rgsproc"
tags: Astronomy
tags: X-ray
aside:
    toc: true
mode: immersive
header:
  theme: dark
article_header:
  type: overlay
  theme: dark
  background_color: '#203028'
  background_image:
    gradient: 'linear-gradient(135deg, rgba(34, 139, 87 , .4), rgba(139, 34, 139, .4))'
    src: cover3.jpg

---

<!--more-->

# Overview

The task contains six main stages,

1. **events**: preliminary tasks, source-independent calibrations
2. **angles**: aspect-drift corrections
3. **filter**: filter events and exposure
4. **spectra**: generate spectra
5. **fluxing**: generate response matrices and flux the spectra
6. **lightcurve**: generate light curves

## 1. Stage One: "events"

### 1.1 atthkgen

Creates the attitude time-series file. This step is skipped if the file already exists in the current working directory.

### 1.2 attfilter

Creates the attitude-drift GTI as filtering of the attitude time-series over the duration of the exposure being processed.

## 2. hkgtigen

Analyzes the ODF housekeeping data to determine the basic set of housekeeping GTI for each instrument.

### 2.1 rgsoffsetcalc

(To force construction of fresh offsets the user must manually delete this file before running rgsproc.)

### 2.2 rgssources

Creates the soure list and adds to it the SRCLIST table.

If you want to add more sources, just use rgssources, do not restart rgsproc.

### 2.3 rgsframes

creates the intermediate event lists and adds to them the PIXELS and EXPOSURE tables, adn an internally generated GTI table called STDGTI.

### 2.4 rgsenergy

adds the PI column to the PIXELS table of the intermediate event lists.

### 2.5 rgsbadpix

adds the two node-specific BADPIXn tables to the intermediate event lists.

### 2.6 rgsevents

adds the EVNETS and REJPIXn tables to the intermediate event lists along with an index of event associations in the PIXELS table.

### 2.7 evlistcomb

Create the combined event list from the set of intermediate event lists for one exposure.

## 3. Stage Two: "angles"

The second processing stage corrects the event coordinates for aspect drift and establishes the dispersion and cross-dispersion channel definitions, according to which the events and exposure are binned.

### 3.1 rgsangles

adds the dispersion and cross-dispersion channel numbers for each event to the EVENTS talbe.

## 4. Stage Three: "filter"

Filter the combined event list to produce the filtered event list, which contains the collection of node-specific exposure maps. It also creates the separate combined exposure map. The filtering performed here is not general; it is based only on event flags and frame timestamps, and the purpose is simply to remove data that are not usable for any purpose of analysis.

### 4.1 rgsfilter

creates the filtered event list as an exact replica of the combined event list, then removes
unwanted frames and events, and adds the node-specific exposure maps.

## 5. Stage Four: "spectra"

creates spectra for various sources at each specified reflection order.

### 5.1 rgsregions

Adds the source and background extraction region extensions to the source list.

### 5.2 rgsspectrum

creates a source and background spectrum for each selected source in each of the specified reflection orders.

## 6. Stage Five: "fluxing"

### 6.1 rgsrmfgen

generates the response matrices. These are required for rgsfluxer for fluxing spectra, but their true value is seen in such sophisticated analysis packages as XSPEC, where a resolution of 3000 to 5000 incident energy bins (parameter **rmfbins**) is recommended for good results.

### 6.2 rgsfluxer

combines the primary source spectrum for each exposure and specified instrument with the corresponding response matrices to produce a single fluxed spectrum for the whole observation. 
**The fluxed spectrum should not be used as the starting point for any serious analysis of the data because it neglects the redistribution of monochromatic response into the dispersion channels. **

## 7. Stage Six: "lightcurve" 

The sixth processing stage creates source and background time series for each exposure and order using rgslccorr.